---
description: Information about the Level 0 Gold Mining quest.
---

# Gold Mining

**Gold Mining Quests** can be performed by a group of anywhere between 1 and 6 Heroes at a time.  Heroes can be queued to begin questing as soon as the Stamina of the currently questing Heroes is expended; however, the group of Heroes will all stop mining as soon as any Hero's Stamina reaches zero. Additionally, once a group of any size enters the mine, additional miners cannot be added to the group. Those Heroes will be queued and will not commence their quest until one Hero in the previous group reaches 0 Stamina, causing the entire group to stop mining, or until the player ends the mining quest early.

The amount of **gold** generated by a miner is based on each Hero's **STR** and **END** scores, **mining** score and on whether the Hero has **mining** as their main profession. Each Hero calculates rewards separately, even when questing as a group.

Heroes with **mining** as their main profession expend 1 Stamina every 10 minutes, and all other Heroes expend 1 Stamina per 12 minutes. However, if a group of Miners contains Heroes that do _not_ have **mining** as their main profession, all Heroes in that group will expend at the 1 Stamina per 12 minutes rate. It is important to strategically group miners to achieve maximum rewards.

Mining quests also have a chance to reward Heroes with **Gaia's Tears**, **Shvās runes**, and **Yellow Eggs**. Item drop rates are increased by varying combinations of **STR**, **END**, the **mining** stat, and the **mining** gene.

### Level 0 base item drop rates:

**Shvās rune** - 0.3% per 5 Stamina expended, boosted to 1.5% with **mining** main skill&#x20;

**Gaia's Tears** - 7%  per 5 Stamina expended, boosted to 10.75% with **mining** main skill

**Yellow Egg** - 0.02% (per 10 Stamina spent)
